Welcome back in this lecture we're going to discuss histograms.
Let's first understand what a regular histogram is and then I will explain what image histogram means
in general a normal histogram is just the visual representation of the distribution of a continuous
feature.
So here's a simple example that has really nothing to do with images but on the x axes we have some
sort of continuous feature.
In this case it's how tall these trees are in height.
So then we have these bins and on the vertical axis we have frequency.
So basically the way you actually read this is you know you have three trees that are between the heights
of 60 and 65 as well as three trees that are between the heights of 65 and 70.
And then the third been coming from the left between 70 and 75.
It looks like it marks about eight.
So then you have eight trees that are between 70 and 75 feet.
Now you can also then display this as a general trend by drawing what's known as a kernel density estimation
plot.
So instead of having those bins instead what you can do is just draw a line that basically reflects
the frequency distribution of whatever x axes you're trying to understand.
Now for images what we can do is we can display the frequency of values for colors.
Each of the three red green and blue channels has values between 0 and 255.
We can do then plot these three histograms on top of each other to see how much of each actual color
channel there is in an actual image.
So here's an example histogram.
In fact this is the histogram for that blue Brick's image that we were working with during the smoothing
and blurring.
So what is commonly done is for each particular color you just color in the histogram so we can see
here that we have in general lower values of red and it seems like we have higher values of green and
blue and it looks like the yellow peak around somewhere maybe a little close to 225.
Now recall that 0 means pure black.
So if you have an image of a lot of black you would expect to see a lot of peaks in the black or peaks
near zero.
I should say let's explore how to create image histograms with an open C-v.
All right let's begin.
I've already imported CB2 an umpire in that plotless.
What I will do now is import three images and in fact I'm just going to copy and paste the import commands
from the notebook that we don't just waste time doing the same lines of code over and over again.
But basically what we're doing here is I'm going to import an image of a horse an image of a rainbow
that we were seen before and an image of those blue bricks and hope for all of them and converting the
color to be correct from that.
So I'm actually doing two variables.
One is called dark horse here and the other one is called show horse.
This one is called Rainbow and the other one is show rainbow.
This one is called blue bricks.
And the other ones show bricks.
The reason I'm creating two variables for each particular image is because one of them I'm actually
going to perform my calculations on because we're going to be using open C-v to perform calculations
of color histograms.
We should have it in the RGV color order or BGR color order that open Sivy expects.
If you actually want to show the image though so we can relate the histogram to what we're seeing visually.
Then we'll have this show horse image or show rainbow or show bricks and that one is color corrected
for Matt plotless.
Again here we're using the original
blue g r channeling for open C-v and then on the show ones these are converted to RGV for show.
So we're going to keep the originals that we can put calculations on it for the color histograms.
So will you be using open C-v actually performed his calculations.
But let's just quickly show you what these images look like.
So we'll do the show horse.
So what's interesting about this horse picture is notice there's a ton of black around this horse.
So I would expect that a lot of the values are actually spiking near zero since that's a representative
color for black.
So we don't see a whole lot of red blue or green when there's black there.
OK so that's a show horse show rainbow.
So here we can see the rainbow.
It looks like there's a pretty good distribution of colors.
Looks like there's a little more red here but that could be balanced out by the green and blue being
shown over here on the bottom right.
So rainbow is kind of interesting.
And then let's see the blue bricks and whoops I showed the wrong one.
We want show Brick's.
So that's the reason we have to show it's actually display the image blue blue Brick's the original
That's what we're going to be working with and show Brick's is essentially just blue or white.
So it expects to see really high values of blue maybe some green probably not so much in the red.
OK so what do we actually do here.
Calculate the histogram values and that function is simply CB2 and we say calque just those that the
H capitalize.
Then as Listy past the image you want to calculate for those the brackets there.
In this case we'll do blue bricks.
Notice something in blue bricks not show bricks showing which is from at plotless.
And then you decide what channels you want.
In our case let's go ahead and do the blue channel.
So as a list I mean the passen 0.
The reason I'm doing 0 is because remember for open C-v the color channel order is blue green red.
So index 0.
The very first one that will be blue.
So now I'm interested in blue so say channels and then pass in blue there.
Then there's an optional mass parameter.
The mass parameter is if you want to apply umask to only part of the image and only calculate the histogram
for that part of the image.
In our case we want the whole image so say none than the other parameter is just size histogram size
that essentially gives you the upper limit so we can say 256 we want one more than the actual 255 limit
and similar thinking we're going to do is say ranges is equal to and will go from zero to 256.
Again the reason we're going from 0 to 256 is it's essentially up to a lot including 256.
So our values are from 0 to 255.
So we want to add one more.
So we don't cut off any values at 255 and let's say this we're actually going to sign this just values
run that and check it out.
Let's figure out his values.
If we check out the shape of this.
It's 256 by 1.
So then we're going to say is PBT plot to his values run that and here we can see the histogram values
for the blue color.
Notice that it looks like we have a peak at around 1 to 50 for blue and also peek around maybe 225 for
Blue.
Let's now actually try calculating the same coloring but we'll do it now for this horse.
So remember the horse if we actually see the horse there actually isn't that much color in this image
and there's certainly not a lot of blue color.
This brown is probably more red than anything.
So we should expect to see a lot of blue in this image because most of it is just black and brown.
It's very much contributing from red.
So we shouldn't expect to see that much blue.
Let's try it out in the copy and paste the same command place down here instead of blue bricks.
Let's put in our art course.
Run that and we'll save realty dot plot and we'll plot out those values.
Run that and for that Darkhorse notice what it looks like.
Pretty much completely different.
You now see that most of the values for the blue channel are actually pretty much zero which makes sense
because most of the image was black which is zero.
And the stuff that was colored in such as the horse that was mainly a kind of reddish brown so I wouldn't
expect to see that much blue.
There's a little bit of a bump here kind of close to zero but that's basically probably it's only contribution
to the image so I would expect to see most of this be zero.
OK so now let's actually show you how you can plot out the three color histograms all at once sort of
come down here and let's do this for the blue Brick's image we'll see.
Image is blue bricks.
So we're going to resign it there.
And what I'm going to do is say color is equal to and I'll say a string B for blue string G for green
and then string R..
Remember this is the order the open C-v does.
It's colored generally in blue green red and then I will say for eye color and enumerates and all I'm
going to do here is essentially call that histogram function three times once for each color will say
any numeric color will say here's our Ezekial to CB2 and then we're going to calculate the highest cocket
the highest the image.
Notice I'm passing it in as a list and then the color channel we're going to be passing in is defined
by I I because it's a numerate it's just going to be zero on the blue one on the green and the two on
the red.
So that works out.
And then there is no mask will say none.
And then we'll use the same values before 2:56 and the range is zero comma 256.
So now that we have that we'll go ahead and plot it we will say Piazzi plot just are and then we'll
say color is equal to c o l essentially labeling it b g or are.
And to make sure this is going to change just right appear to be c l that we don't get confused with
this particular color.
So I'll say for I call so short for color and then assign it.
It so c all right here that's going to be B C and R.
They will plot that out and then we can set the limit as well.
Just in case.
So just saying the limits in case we get a very large histogram that extends beyond 256 So we're going
to set those limits and that outside of the for loop hole title this histogram for blue bricks and let's
run this.
OK.
So here we have the his room for blue bricks and is what we have here.
We don't have a lot of contribution from red.
We have a lot more contribution from green and blue.
It makes sense because if we take a look at that actual bricks image effect we can display it right
here by just saying Piazzi show show Brick's.
We mainly have the colors blue.
OK now let's see what happens if we do this exact same thing.
But for the darkhorse so going to say now for horse and change this image to be dark horse.
So I rerun that cell rerun this and I see the histogram for the horse and pretty much for every color
that actually that I have that much less change.
Excellent.
So it can kind of zoom in here on what's going on between the values of 0 and 50.
So I will change my ex limits to zero on a 50 and I run that again.
And let's actually now change the Y elements as well.
So we'll go down to maybe 500000.
So there's a really large image there's tons of counts here.
I can change that white limit to say appeal t y lib.
In this case we'll go from zero to let's say 500000.
Run that and now we can really see the bumps we have here.
So it looks like red starts getting a bump around maybe a little beyond 10 and a little bit of green
a bump but really not that much.
As we know the value of 10 and R.G. be between 0 and 255 that's really not that much color.
So a lot of the image is black and because it's such a large image that pixel count really distorts
the system.
So keep that in mind if you have a really really large image and the horse image is quite large.
You can check it out here.
We can say Darkhorse shape.
It's 18:00 by twenty seven hundred.
So that means it's going to be eighteen hundred twenty seven hundred times three.
So we have you know this many pixels in it around fourteen point five million.
So that much of the image especially that many dark pixels is pure black.
That's going to start your histogram.
So just keep that in mind as you begin exploring color histograms.
OK we'll stop Part One here.
Coming up next we're going to discuss histogram equalization and finish off the section of the course.
We'll see if the next lecture.